One of the more noticeable changes
introduced by Flutter 2,
is that the buttons which we used thus far in Flutter apps
are deprecated.
And with that, I'm talking about the RaisedButton,
the FlatButton, and the OutlineButton other buttons
like floating action buttons, or icon buttons
are not deprecated.
It's these three buttons, which are deprecated.
And hence, if you use RaisedButton, FlatButton
or OutlineButton in your code and you are using Flutter 2,
you might see this strike through effect here
in visual studio code,
which signals that you should not use that button anymore.
Though I will come back to this should not use part
in a couple of seconds again.
Now the most important message right away is that
even though you should not use them anymore,
you can absolutely still use them.
If I would run this simple demo app here
which really just renders these three buttons,
I can still see those three buttons on the screen
and they do work.
I can press them, I got no error, everything works.
I get my log outputs down there from pressing these buttons.
So I can continue using them.
And I don't have to change all of them right now,
I can do this later in the future.
And indeed you will still see these "old buttons"
get used a lot in other resources
and example apps, which you'll find out there
and in existing code basis of existing projects.
That's another reason
why you might not wanna switch instantly
because you will still find a lot of resources out there
which do use these older buttons.
And then this course, I also use these buttons everywhere
because I did record this course with Flutter
prior to version two
and hence of course I am using these older buttons in there.
And at the moment, there's nothing wrong with that.
So, if you wanna stick to these older buttons
and you wanna get rid of that strike through effect,
you can go to your Settings
and search for Deprecated and then disable Show Deprecated.
And if you do that, then these buttons
are not having this strike through effect anymore.
So this can be something you might wanna consider doing,
if you wanna continue using those buttons.
Now I will enable it again, though.
Of course, the alternative to sticking to these buttons
is to migrate to their new equivalents.
Because these old buttons were deprecated
because there were new button widgets introduced
which you should use instead.
And we're now going to migrate to these newer buttons
step-by-step over the next minutes.
And let's start with the RaisedButton.
The RaisedButton will be replaced by an ElevatedButton.
Now for the moment,
we'll have to remove color and text color
because the ElevatedButton
does not support these arguments,
but if we would have a button without any custom colors,
then migrating to this new button
is as simple as swapping out the name.
Because it's then really just ElevatedButton
instead of RaisedButton.
And if I saved this, this button is still being rendered
and I'm now using this ElevatedButton.
Now, once you can already see here
is of course now that I migrated
or switched to this ElevatedButton,
we automatically have this blue background
and this white text color,
because the ElevatedButton behind the scenes
automatically picks up your main theme color
set by your application.
And that is blue in this case here.
And therefore we automatically get this styling
which is inline with our theme
which is one of the advantages of the new buttons.
We don't have to add styles manually,
we do get the base styling,
fitting our theme out of the box.
But of course we can also still style them manually
to override the theme color or add other extra stylings.
And that's the biggest difference
between the old and the new buttons.
The old buttons had those extra arguments
which you could set for styling them like the text color,
the border side and so on.
The new buttons don't have that.
Instead the new buttons have a single new style argument
which you can set to then style this button.
And style wants a ButtonStyle object
which you construct by instantiating the button style class,
and it's then this ButtonStyle class
where you can set all kinds of styles for this button.
And here, for example, you got a background color
and you got a foreground color
and you would use these colors to control the text
and the well background color.
Foreground color sets the text as you see,
background color sets to fill color.
So here, if you wanna have a RaisedButton
with a blue background color and the white foreground color,
we could set background color here
but then not to Colors.blue.
You don't like this,
instead here, you then use materialStateProperty.all
and then pass Colors.blue to that.
Might look a bit strange,
but that is how you do then assign a color
to this background color argument here
for this button style object,
which we set as a style for this button.
And for the foreground color
it's MaterialStateProperty.all Colors.white.
And if we would set this,
then we would have this blue button still
but if I for example, switch my background color
to orange and saved this, now we have the orange button.
So that's how we then style these new buttons
with this extra style argument
which takes such a button style object.
Now, since assigning styles like this can be a bit annoying,
especially drilling into the colors like this
can be annoying,
there is an alternative way
of deriving this style for this button.
You can use ElevatedButton, but then not instantiated
but instead called a styleFrom method there.
And on this styleFrom method
you then get a couple of styling arguments like primary
and you can then directly set primary to a color
like Colors.blue,
and this will then affect all the parts of the button
that make up this button.
So for the ElevatedButton,
that button has a background color
and hence it's the background color
that's targeted by primary.
You got up on primary argument to control the color
off the content on the primary color.
So in this case, the foreground color on the background.
So you could then set this to Colors.white.
And for example, change this to orange here
and now with that, we would have a simplified way
of setting the background and the foreground color here.
And you can use either of the two approaches,
create this button style object
and set background and foreground color
which is very explicit but a bit longer
or use this styleFrom method to set primary and on primary.
Now attached to this lecture, you also find a link
to the official button migration documentation,
a document which will also explore
how to migrate your buttons
and which we'll dig a bit deeper into styling these buttons,
and therefore you can check out that document as well.
Now that's the ElevatedButton
which is our old RaisedButton.
Now for the FlatButton, we now have the TextButton.
The TextButton replaces the FlatButton
and just like the ElevatedButton,
it doesn't have these individual style arguments anymore.
Instead it has one style argument
and here again, you set a button style by instantiating it,
and then there you can set the foreground color
to control the text
and also still a background color
if you wanna add a background color.
By default the text button not have a background though
because the idea behind that TextButton
is that it's just text no background color,
but alternatively to setting this button style
with foreground and maybe background and maybe other styles,
you can also use TextButton style from here again
and then here set primary:Colors.blue, or maybe orange
so that we see a difference.
If I save this now, the text is orange and that's important.
Primary is not always the background color,
instead primary really targets the primary thing
that makes up this button
and for an ElevatedButton
the primary element is the background
because that's the main thing
that makes up a ElevatedButton.
It's a button with a background
and therefore primary targets that background.
And on primary targets the foreground
or the TextButton, the primary element is the text
and hence primary targets to text color.
Here, we also have no on primary argument we could set
because the TextButton
is about not having a background color.
If you want the background color, use an ElevatedButton.
So that's how we can translate the FlatButton.
Now for the OutlineButton, we have the new OutlinedButton.
So the extra d here matters
and that will then replace your old OutlineButton.
Here, we again don't have those individual style properties
instead, we can add the new style argument here
and set this to a BorderStyle again
where we then target the individual styling elements
like side for the border side
so the border of color ends on
or we use OutlinedButton.styleFrom
and then here again, we can, for example
set the primary color to Colors.orange.
And if we do that,
you will notice that now it's the text again
which is orange.
For styling the border, we have this side argument here
and you can always use the other completion
to see which different arguments you can set here.
And that wants a border side object
which you construct by calling the BorderSide constructor
and then there, you can set the color off the border side.
So off the border overall.
And if you now save this, you have an orange border.
And that's how we can migrate
from the old buttons to the new buttons.
RaisedButton becomes ElevatedButton,
FlatButton becomes TextButton
and OutlineButton becomes OutlinedButton with an extra d.
For simple cases where you don't set any colors or styling,
you can just swap the widget names for more complex buttons
where you do add your own colors or your own stylings.
There you instead add this style argument
instead of the individual style arguments.
And then there, you either create a button style object
with foreground background color and so on,
or you use these style from methods on the button classes
to assign primary colors, background colors, border colors
and so on.
Now, as I mentioned,
you can stick to the old buttons as well,
they will definitely also stay around for many months
but you can of course,
also migrate to these new buttons instead
because over all, as you see
migrating isn't too difficult in the end.
It's often just about swapping the names
or also about adding these extra style arguments
which then in the end also, aren't too difficult to use.